Title: Deconstructed Chicken Parm 
Description: 
Source: THE PIONEER WOMAN
Original URL: https://www.thepioneerwoman.com/food-cooking/recipes/a34763888/chicken-parm-pasta/
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
	5 tbsp. olive oil
	1/2 c. panko breadcrumbs
	3/4 c. grated parmesan cheese
	1 lb. skinless, boneless chicken breasts, cut into 1/2-inch-thick strips
	1 1/2 tsp. kosher salt, plus more for the pasta
	4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
	1/4 tsp. red pepper flakes
	1 28-ounce can whole peeled tomatoes, crushed by hand
	1 lb. bucatini or spaghetti
	1/2 c. loosely packed fresh basil, thinly sliced, plus leaves for garnish
	8 oz. mini Ciliegine mozzarella balls, drained

Instructions:
	Heat a small skillet over medium-low heat and add 1 tablespoon olive oil. Add the panko and stir to coat in the oil. Cook, tossing, until the panko is crisp and golden, 3 to 4 minutes. Set aside to cool, then stir in 1⁄4 cup of the parmesan.
	Season the chicken with 1 teaspoon salt. Add 2 tablespoons olive oil to a large nonstick skillet and heat over medium-high. When the oil is hot, add the chicken and cook, tossing occasionally, until browned, about 3 minutes. Remove to a plate.
	Reduce the heat to medium and add the remaining 2 tablespoons oil to the skillet. Add the garlic and cook until it just begins to turn golden, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Sprinkle in the red pepper flakes and add the tomatoes. Add 1 cup water and 1 1⁄2 teaspoon salt. Bring to a simmer and cook until thickened, about 15 minutes.
	Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook according to the package directions for al dente. Reserve 1⁄2 cup of the cooking water, then drain the pasta.
	Add the chicken and basil to the tomato sauce and return to a simmer. Add the pasta and cook, tossing to coat, about 1 minute. Add the remaining 1⁄2 cup parmesan and toss. Remove from the heat, scatter in the mozzarella and toss, then cover and let sit until the mozzarella begins to melt, about 1 minute. Uncover and toss once more, adding a little of the reserved cooking water if the pasta seems dry. Top each serving with the panko mixture and basil.

