Title: Deep Fried Turkey
Description: 
Source: THEWOODENSKILLET.COM
Original URL: https://thewoodenskillet.com/how-to-deep-fry-a-turkey/
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
	Fresh Turkey (if frozen ensure it is FULLY thawed)
	Peanut Oil
	Tony Chachere’s Cajun Butter creole injector
	Butter
	Salt
	Turkey Fryer Kit (burner, large fryer pot + lid, fryer basket, turkey hanger, turkey fryer thermometer).
	Gloves
	Propane tank
	Meat Thermometer

Instructions:
	Thaw: Completely thaw your turkey (very important – see our tutorial on how to thaw a turkey) – do not cook unless it is 100% thawed – and bring to room temperature. No real need to pat dry with paper towels since it will be going right into the oil.
	Remove Giblets + Hock Lock: Remove giblets, neck, etc. from inside. Additionally, remove any hock lock that is holding the legs in place.
	Inject: Using a Tony Chachere’s cajun butter creole injector, inject the butter in as many places as you can for even flavoring.
	Peanut Oil: When you are ready to deep fry, add enough peanut oil to your aluminum deep fryer (you can test out how much you need by practicing with water first) so that your turkey will be completely submerged.
	Temperature: Bring the temperature of the oil to 400 degrees F. – do NOT let it go over 400 degrees as it is very dangerous and could catch on fire. Keep covered when heating oil.
	Prep: Once fully cooked, remove and baste with butter and sprinkle with salt. You can check the internal temperature of the turkey by placing an instant-read thermometer into the thickest part of the breast and thigh. A turkey is fully cooked when it reaches an internal temperature of 165 degrees F.   On average, the turkey will take 3.5 minutes per pound.  Ensure the turkey rests for 30 minutes and then move to a cutting board to carve.

Notes: Thaw in refrigerator for 1 day for every 5 pounds.  For a quick thaw, cover in cold water, changing the water every 30 minutes.  The water method takes 30 minutes for every 5 pounds.   Have a water-tight bag available to keep from contaminating the water.
