Title: Fruit Tart
Description: 
Source: House of Nash
Original URL: https://houseofnasheats.com/french-fruit-tart/
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Image: images/fruit-tart.jpg
Ingredients:
[PASTRY CREAM]
	1 1/2 cups whole milk
	1/2 cup heavy cream
	1/2 cup sugar, divided
	Pinch of salt
	3 tablespoons cornstarch
	5 egg yolks
	4 tablespoons cold butter, cut into chunks
	1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla bean paste

[PASTRY CRUST]
	1 egg yolk
	1 tablespoon heavy cream
	1/2 teaspoon vanilla
	1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
	2/3 cup powdered sugar
	1/4 teaspoon salt
	8 tablespoons cold, unsalted butter, cut into chunks

[GLAZE]
	1/2 cup apricot preserves
	2 tablespoons water
	2 tablespoons sugar

[FRUIT TOPPING]
	3 kiwis, peeled, halved lengthwise, and sliced 3/8-inch thick
	10 to 12 strawberries, hulled and sliced in half
	1/2 cup mandarin oranges, drained
	1/2 cup blueberries
	1/4 cup raspberries
	1/2 cup apple jelly or apricot preserves, warmed

Instructions:
[HOW TO MAKE A TART CRUST]
	Combine the egg yolk, cream, and vanilla together in a small bowl and whisk together with a fork.
	Using a food processor (affiliate link), cut the butter into the flour, powdered sugar, and salt until it resembles coarse crumbs.
	Slowly pour the liquids into the flour mixture while the food processor (affiliate link) is running and let it process until it begins to come together.
	Remove the tart dough and flatten it into a disc, then wrap in plastic wrap and chill for at least an hour in the fridge.
	When the dough has chilled, roll it out on a lightly-floured surface into a circle slightly larger than your tart pan (mine is a 9-inch pan but I think this could also probably fit a 10-inch pan), then gently lift it over the pan and press into the corners and fluted sides, running a rolling pin (affiliate link) over the top to cut off any excess dough.
	Freeze the tart shell for 30 minutes, then press a double layer of foil into the tart shell and fill with pie weights. Here is a helpful resource with step-by-step pictures about how to blind bake a tart crust using pie weights.
	Bake for 30 minutes at 375 degrees before removing the pie weights and foil and baking for another 5 to 10 minutes, until golden.

[HOW TO MAKE PASTRY CREAM]
	Bring the milk and cream to a simmer in a medium saucepan with half of the sugar. It doesn’t need to boil and it doesn’t take long. Medium-high heat will do the trick in less than 5 minutes.
	While the milk mixture heats, whisk together the sugar and cornstarch in a bowl so that it is evenly combined. Then whisk in the egg yolks until the mixture is light and creamy.
	When the milk is hot, temper the egg yolks by slowly pouring half of the hot liquid in to the yolks, whisking constantly. This will keep the egg yolks from scrambling when added to the pan.
	Pour the tempered egg yolk mixture into the pan with the remaining liquid, reduce the heat, and continue to whisk constantly until the pastry cream is thick and a few bubbles start to pop on the surface, then remove from the heat.
	Stir in some cold butter and vanilla bean paste (or an equal amount of vanilla extract). And that’s it!
	Transfer to a shallow pan or a bowl and lay plastic wrap directly on top of the pastry cream so a skin doesn’t form while it cools. Then cool completely in a fridge for 3 hours before using.

[PASTRY CREAM]
	Combine the milk, cream, and half of the sugar in a medium sauce pan over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally until the liquid comes to a simmer.
	As the liquid heats, whisk together the remaining sugar, salt, cornstarch, and egg yolks in a medium bowl until light and creamy.
	Once the milk mixture is hot, slowly whisk about 1 cup of the liquid into the egg mixture to temper the yolks.  Pour the tempered egg mixture back into the saucepan with the hot milk mixture and reduce the heat to medium, continuing to cook while whisking constantly, until thickened and a few bubbled burst on the surface, about 30 seconds.
	Remove the pastry cream from the heat and whisk in the butter and vanilla, then transfer to a bowl and cover with a sheet of plastic wrap placed directly onto the surface of the pastry cream so a skin doesn't form.  Refrigerate until chilled and firm, about 3 hours.

[TART SHELL]
	Whisk together the egg yolk, cream, and vanilla in a small bowl.
	Combine the flour, powdered sugar, and salt in a food process and briefly process to combine.  Add the cold butter pieces to the flour mixture and pulse to cut into the flour until the mixture resembles coarse meal, about 15 pulses.
	While the food process is running, add the liquid through the feed tube and continue to process just until the dough comes together around the blade.
	Turn out the tart dough onto a sheet of plastic wrap and flatten into a 6-inch disk, then wrap it tightly and refrigerate for 1 hour.  Let sit out on the counter for 10 minutes to soften slightly before rolling out.
	Roll out the pastry crust on a lightly floured surface until it is slightly larger than your tart pan (mine is a 9-inch pan).  Carefully transfer the dough to the pan by rolling it onto the rolling pin, then gently easing the dough into the pan, pressing into the corners and fluted sides of the pan.
	Run the rolling pin over the top of the pan so that the excess dough gets cut off on the edge of the pin, making a clean edge.  Patch any edges that are too thin with excess dough, trimming away the edge again as necessary.  Freeze the tart shell for 30 minutes.
	When ready to bake the tart shell, heat oven to 375 degrees F. Press a double layer of foil into the frozen tart shell, covering the edges of the pan and filling the tart shell with pie weights.  Bake for 30 minutes, rotating halfway through, then carefully remove the pie weights and foil and bake another 5 to 10 minutes, until the tart shell is fully baked and golden.  Cool completely before filling.

[TART ASSEMBLY]
	When the tart shell is completely cooled, spread the pastry cream over the bottom of the shell.  Arrange the fruit in a decorative fashion over the cream, overlapping the sliced kiwi or mandarin oranges, and mounding raspberries or blueberries in the center of the tart.
	Melt the jelly or preserves in a small saucepan or the microwave, stirring until smooth.  Use a pastry brush to gently dab the melted jelly over the fruit.  You may not use all of the jelly.  Slice and serve.

