Title: Sushi Bake
Description: Viral TikTok recipe for sushi casserole, modified to our liking.

Recipe painstakingly documented by Lawrence Love.
Source: Quicker Kitchen
Original URL: https://thequickerkitchen.com/sushi-bake-viral-tiktok-recipe/
Yield: 
Active: 
Total: 
Ingredients:
	8 oz imitation crab (flake style)
	10 to 16 oz fresh salmon
	1 tbsp garlic powder
	1/2 tsp salt
	1/2 tap ground black pepper
	4 oz cream cheese softened
	1/2 cup kewpie mayonnaise
	2 tablespoons sriracha plus more for topping
	4 cups cooked sushi rice (16oz uncooked)
	1 tablespoon rice vinegar
	3 tablespoons furikake seasoning divided
	Nori for serving
	Spicy mayonnaise for topping
	Tempura shrimp (optional)

Instructions:
[Prepare Salmon]
	Preheat oven to 375°
	Place salmon on aluminum foil, folding edges of foil to create a spill barrier.
	Season salmon with powdered garlic, salt, and pepper.
	Place foil/salmon directly on a center rack and bake until fully cooked, roughly 40 minutes.

[Prepare Rice]
	Put 16 oz (1 1/2 cups) of uncooked sushi rice into pot (or rice cooker), with 2 1/4 cups of water.
	Cook rice until water is fully absorbed and rice is soft.  (17min at 60% , if cooking n microwave)
	Once cooked, let the rice sit for a few minutes.
	Add rice vinegar (or mirin) and mix into the rice.

[Prepare Crab mixture]
	While crab and rice are cooking, shred imitation crab into small, bites-size pieces., no bigger than an inch in length.  If still chunky, shred further.
	Let cream cheese sit at room temperature for at least 30 minutes to soften.
	Slice cream cheese into eight half-ounce chunks.
	Once crab has cooled, add crab, salmon, cream cheese, and kewpie mayonnaise into a mixing bowl.
	Mix crab mixture until well mixed.
	Add sriracha sauce, if desired.

[Prepare Spicy Mayo]
	Mix kewpie mayonnaise and sriracha sauce until the correct color.   Roughly 1/2 cup of mayonnaise and 1 tap of sriracha.
	Alternatively, you can purchase premade spicy mayo.  This is easier since it is usually sold in a container with a built-in squirt nozzle.

[Assemble]
	In the bottom of a 9x13 baking dish, add rice mixture and flatten down into an even layer
	Sprinkle on half the furikake.
	Top with the crab mixture, and then sprinkle remaining furikake
	Drizzle with spicy mayo and sriracha, if desired.
	Serve with nori.  You can optionally serve with unagi (eel) sauce and tempura shrimp.

